DEVELOPERS
==========

This file aims to describe an introduction for developers to work
on the code base of radare2 project.

CODE STYLE
----------
In order to contribute with patches or plugins we encourage you to
use the same coding style as the rest of the code base.

You may find some notes on this topic in doc/syntax and doc/vim

MODULES
-------
The radare2 code base is modularized into different libraries that are
found in libr/ directory. The binr/ directory contains the programs
that use the libraries.

It is possible to generate PIC/nonPIC builds of the libraries and also
to create a single static library, so you can use a single library
archive (.a) to link your programs and get your programs using radare
framework libraries without depending on them.

The following presentation gives a good overview of the libraries:

   http://radare.org/get/lacon-radare-2009/

API
---
As mentioned in README.md, the API itself is maintained in a different
repository. The API function definitions in C header files are derived
from and documented in the radare2-bindings repository, found at:

   git clone git://github.com/radare/radare2-bindings

Currently the process of updating the header files from changed API
bindings requires human intervention, to ensure that proper review
occurs.  Incorrect definitions in the C header files will trigger
a build failure in the bindings repository.

If you are able to write a plugin for various IDE that can associate
the bindings with the header files, such a contribution would be
very welcome.

DEPENDENCIES
------------
radare2 can be built without any special dependency. It just requires
a C compiler, a GNU make and a unix-like system.

CROSSCOMPILATION
----------------
The instructions to crosscompile r2 to Windows are in doc/windows

You may find other documents in doc/ explaining how to build it on iOS,
linux-arm and others, but the procedure is like this:

 - define CC
 - use a different compiler profile with --with-compiler
 - use a different OS with --with-ostype
 - type make
 - install in DESTDIR

SOURCE REPOSITORY
-----------------
The source of radare2 can be found in the following github repository.

   git clone git://github.com/radare/radare2

Other packages radare2 depends on, such as Capstone, are pull from
their git repository as required.

To get an up to date copy of the repository you should perform the
following steps:

   git pull

If you have conflicts in your local copy it's because you have modified
files which are conflicting with the incoming patchsets. To get a clean
source directory type the following command:

   git clean -xdf
   git reset --hard

COMPILATION
-----------
Inter-module rebuild dependencies are not handled automatically and
require human interaction to recompile the affected modules.

This is a common issue and can end up having outdated libraries trying
to use deprecated structures which may result into segfaults.

You have to make clean on the affected modules or just, if you are not
sure enough that everything is ok just make clean the whole project.

If you want to accelerate the build process after full make cleans
you should use ccache in this way:

  export CC="ccache gcc"

INSTALLATION
------------
Developers use to modify the code, type make and then try.

radare2 have a specific makefile target that allows you to install
system wide but using symlinks instead of hard copies.

   sudo make symstall

This kind of installation is really helpful if you do lot of changes
in the code for various reasons.

  - only one install is required across multiple builds
  - installation time is much faster

REGRESSION TESTING
------------------

The source of the radare2 regression test suite can be found in the
following github repository.

   git clone git://github.com/radare/radare2-regressions

See the README.md file in that repository for further information.

The existing test coverage can always do with improvement, so if you can
contribute additions tests that would be gratefully accepted.

REPORTING BUGS
--------------
If you notice any misfeature, issue, error, problem or you just
don't know how to do something which is supposed to be covered
by this framework.

You should report it in our web page in the 'bugs' section.

   http://www.radare.org/

Otherwise, if you are looking for some more feedback I will
encourage you to send an email to any of the emails enumerated
in the AUTHORS file.

Anyway, if you want to get even more feedback and discuss this
in a public place we have a mailing list where many other
people may help in order to find a solution.

CONTRIBUTING WITH PATCHES
-------------------------
All the development happens in the git repository. It is
good that all patches can be applied against the git HEAD.

I can get patches in unidiff format like this:

  git diff > p

HOW TO RELEASE 
--------------

 - Set RELEASE=1 in global.mk and r2-bindings/config.mk.acr
 - Use bsdtar from libarchive package. GNU tar is broken

  == RADARE2
   - bump revision
   - ./configure
   - make dist

  == R2-BINDINGS
   - ./configure --enable-devel
   - make
   - make dist


--pancake
